# Executive Summary
In this assignment, we learn how to use the CREATE TABLE statement to create or copy a table with a subquery, the INSERT statement to add new rows to the database, and the UPDATE statement to make changes to rows in the database. We also learn to use the GROUP BY statement to put rows into groups, how to use the WITH ROLLOUT and GROUPING statements to add summary rows to our result set, and how to use aggregate functions like COUNT, SUM, and MAX to evaluate our groups.

# Query Review
Task number 1 starts by giving us an SQL file that creates the database that we’re going to be working with, which has information about a business that sells musical instruments such as guitars and drums. We add our name to the comments and to the name of the database, and we run the script to create the database so that we can run queries with it.

Task number 2 asks us to add ourselves to the customers table using the INSERT statement. To do this, we’ll specify the columns that we want to add: first name, last name, email, and password. Then we’ll use the VALUES clause to set the values of those columns. There are other columns, but in this case, we don’t have to set them to values because they’re able to be set to default or null values automatically.

In task number 3, we take the products table and make a copy of it called NewProductPrices. To do this, we make a SELECT statement that selects the entire products table, and then we install that into the CREATE TABLE statement to make a new table using that selection.

Task number 4 asks us to use the UPDATE statement to change some values within the NewProductPrices table (which we’ve just created). We’re going to change the discount percent to 28 for all products that have 30. We set the value with the SET clause, and we target the correct rows with the WHERE clause.

In task number 5 we use an aggregate function to find the total number of orders in the orders table, and also the total shipping value. We use the COUNT function to tell us how many rows there are, and the SUM function to add all of the shipping values together.

In task number 6 we look through the products table and find how many products there are for each category. This requires us to use the GROUP BY statement, which consolidates rows into groups if they share the same value with each other. In this case, we’ll group rows by which category they’re in. This results in one row for each category. We can then use the COUNT function to get the number of rows in each group, which will tell us how many products belong to each category. The assignment then asks us to show the category names instead of the category IDs, which requires us to perform an INNER JOIN with the categories table. Then we should add a column that shows the most expensive product in each category. We can do this by using the MAX function with the product prices column.

Finally, in task number 7 we will create a SELECT statement that answers the question “What is the total quantity purchased for each product within each category?” We’ll use the order_items table to see the items that were purchased. The ID numbers aren’t as useful to us, so we’ll do a JOIN to exchange the category IDs with the category names, and another JOIN to exchange the product IDs with the product names. To show the totals for each category, we could use the GROUP BY statement with the WITH ROLLUP clause, which will add summary rows to our result set that automatically show totals after each group. We want to know the total of each product, but we also want to know the total of each category. Therefore, we will need to GROUP BY two different columns: category and product. Initially, these summary rows are pretty confusing because they are hard to distinguish from the rest of the data. We can fix this by manually setting labels for the summary rows by putting IF statements inside the column selections. For the IF statement, the first parameter should be a condition that checks if this row is a summary row. We can do this with the GROUPING function. The second parameter is the value that’s assigned if the condition is true, which means the row is a summary row and we should display the label of our choice. Lastly, the third parameter is the value if the condition is false, which means the row is not a summary row and we should just display the column value as we normally do. So, a summary row will appear after each category group that summarizes the products in the group. Therefore, it should read “All Products” in the place of the product name. And a summary row will appear at the end of the entire set that summarizes all categories, so it should read “All Categories” in the place of the category name.

Note: the example screenshot for this assignment shows 3 "Gibson Les Pauls" were sold, but my database says that only 2 were sold. The order_items table shows only two listings for product_id number 2, the Gibson Les Paul, so I know my queries are working correctly; my database values are apparently just inconsistent with those used for the example.

# Conclusion
I enjoyed this assignment. I was feeling a bit overwhelmed by all of the new content that these chapters have introducted, but in the end, I think it was well balanced. I've learned that reading about SQL is more difficult than actually coding SQL; when I'm coding, everything seems to make more sense. I think practice is very important to understand how these concepts and statements work. For task number 7, getting the joins, grouping, and summary rows to all work correctly was pretty satisfying.
