# Executive Summary
In this assignment, we use MySQL Workbench to create an EER model diagram, which helps us view the relationships between our tables; and we create a viewed table object that acts as reference material for our collection of tables. Furthermore, we’ll explore concepts of normalization, and create a database full of tables from scratch with a script file.

# Normalization / EER Model
My first task is to create an EER model in MySQL Workbench using the guitar database from previous assignments. From the start page of Workbench, I clicked the button “Create EER Model from Database”, and selected the guitars database in the resulting dialog boxes. When the diagram window appeared, the table cards were tangled and unorganized, so I arranged them cleanly. As the instructions mentioned, the administrators table was not related to the other tables in any way. However, the “newproductprices” table (which was created in a previous assignment) was also not related.

Task two gives us a table of information, and asks us to normalize the data with normal forms 1NF, 2NF, and 3NF. Regarding 1NF, we should look for columns that contain more than one value, or columns that contain the same type of value as another column. The “student name” column has the first and last name, but instead we should separate them into two columns. The “classes” column lists several classes the student is taking within one cell, but we should only store one value per cell. We cannot make a column for each class, but we can make more rows for each class. Regarding 2NF, we should identify primary keys, and identify columns that don’t depend entirely on the primary keys. If they don’t, those columns should be referenced from another table. In this case, the “student id” is the primary key, and the “classes” column does not depend entirely upon it, so it should be moved to its own table. Finally, regarding 3NF, every non-primary column should depend only on the primary key. In this case, although the “major” column relates to each student, it is not unique among students, and therefore should be referenced in its own table. To relate the students and their classes together, I decided to make an “enrolls” table that lists all of the classes enrolled by students. The classes table will still exist to provide details about each individual class. I can see that the “email” addresses of the students so far qualify as derived data, because you can just use the student’s first name to create it. But I’m not sure if this was part of the assignment or not, because I assume a student may want to change their preferred email. So we end up with four tables: students, enrolls, classes, and majors. The instructions say to add three rows to the students provided, so I added “Harold Berwick”, “Alison Swan”, and “Korbin Dallas”. The instructions also ask for each table to contain at least three rows, so I added a major called “Engineering”. I successfully created a script that creates the database called “assign5”, creates the tables, and populates the tables with the rows of information provided. I then created a query that displays the database information roughly as the instructions do. The query involves a CONCAT to connect the first name and last name, a JOIN to the majors table so we can display the major’s name instead of its ID, and a subquery that counts the number of classes each student is enrolled in. I originally wanted to use a recursive query to CONCAT the class names together with slashes for each row (as the instructions show), but that seemed a bit excessive for this assignment.

The third task has us create a viewed table in MySQL Workbench. Following the instructions, I created a SELECT statement that shows four columns: the item name (category name?), product name, item price, and quantity. The statement will primarily use the order_items table, but I use a JOIN to get the category name, and another JOIN to get the product name. After I confirmed that the SELECT statement was returning the results that I wanted, I added the CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW clause ahead of it to accomplish the task.

# Conclusion
This assignment involved a lot of interesting topics and concepts. I had never heard of database normalization and normal forms, so I enjoyed learning about the logical progression toward organization and referential integrity. I really enjoy database design and creation. Viewed tables seem very useful. The textbook describes that you can use them to pick and choose columns of data from tables to allow users with lower access privileges to view; where they may not have access to view the entire tables that held those columns originally. I think that concept of data security management is pretty interesting.
